Who are the people that make bold decisions,
even in the worst of times? Visionaries.
Author Jim Hamilton is not talking about the people
that make the headlines of the news with audacious takeovers
of companies and the like, but people like you and me.
He says that each one of us has innate tools to become a
visionary, which he says is going to be the difference
between following other people's agendas through out
our lives, and creating our own.
How do you actually define visionaries, because I notice
from your book it doesn't have anything to do with
famous individuals throughout history but this is about
people, forward thinking individuals of all kinds.
Yes, this is about each of us, one of us at a time
discovering our innateness and becoming what we can become.
The visionary idea, you know, revolves around what other
people have done but I'm trying to promote an understanding
of who we each are, and what we can become
and we do it with our mind and our thoughts and
our awareness and our perception.
And the name, the full title of the book is
"Visionaries Thrive At All Times".
In all times, yes.
Yes.
And so, let's begin there then, what is the visionary mind
capable of doing that makes it so flexible?
And then we can start going into more specifics
but just as a beginning point.
Maybe we'd start with our imagination.
How much of the world is here
as a result of our imagination?
A result of things we've thought about or things we've
envisioned, there's an interesting word,
of things that we would like to be.
We all do it with our families, we do it in our businesses,
success is a visionary mode and becoming what we can become
is something that starts with our mind and our perceptions.
And so learning how to harness this and become intentional
with it is how humanity is going to get where it can go.
And that's really a big point you just made is how to
harness it and work with it with our own true intention
and will and desire versus allowing our subconscious
programming to dictate what our lives are looking like
and I think we can all look around and see that.
At least the vestiges of it and we're living,
how we conduct our lives and relationships.
Well, the title of the book comes from an expression.
Observers thrive in good times and suffer in bad.
Visionaries thrive in all times.
So much of us spend most of our life absorbing what's
going on around us, taking it in, titillating our nervous
system with what we've absorbed and then we
kind of broadcast that back out,
and therefore we repeat reality as it exists
and that kind of the, I won't say the dumb way of doing
things but obviously there's a lot to learn as
a species about how to go forward.
How to make our survival more useful to us and
unfold it in the manner we wish and obviously it's up to
us to become intentional and this is what the book is about.
And you read books like Bruce Lipton's "Biology of Belief"
and we also have another man, Rob Williams on our site,
they work together a lot, about the subject that what our
lives are are virtually 95% plus driven by unconscious
or subconscious data, input, and we're just like you say
the observers, you take it in and then you reflect it back
and then you get more of the same and you reflect it back.
What happens when we go into challenging times then?
Well certainly reaction is a very powerful tool
that we've used for a very long time and
what we really need to do it go beyond that.
Humans have always done the best they can
and we're moving to a point of becoming intentional
in our lives and what we're primarily a product of
is our habitual patterns and our habitual patterns
are learned and they're a product of our genetics.
In other words, we are the end result of the decisions
that came before us in our entire lineage.
And so, habitual patterns is the easy way.
It's for the most part the only way and becoming
conscious means moving beyond what's been habitual
for us and obviously the easy way.
And I suppose one of the most extreme examples of that
would be if you see people in today's world that are in
total subjugation to others in the species in essence.
Women that are still living behind veils or behind doors
and not allowed to go out into the public.
This is really just an expression of what
their expectation as a soul, as in
continuing to come into this pattern and to be,
have this pattern repeated throughout future generations.
That's the expectations so that's what you get.
So for that soul, that is an expression if it's knowingness
and it's expectation in life, right?
It also gives us the contrast to want more.
Exactly.
Whether it be the individual wearing the veil and
living in that kind of environment or the people that
from a distance see that, either way there's an impetus to
have more and maybe that's where the visionary mode starts.
So, let's get into some specifics then about where
a person begins to go into visionary mode.
We're here, we're observers, we're putting
it out, we're getting it back.
We're tired of the same old feedback loop.
Now we want to break out of that.
Where would you begin, or where
would you suggest people begin?
Well, clearly the concept, it's fairly basic and
that is out of contrast comes clarity.
So, the pain, let's not use the word pain, but
the difficulty that people lives their life with
the rote existence or the slow upward spiral.
There's a, ultimately as things move faster there's
a discomfort with things being the same.
And breaking out of that is a product of
out of contrast comes clarity and so your visionary
mode springs from the idea of clarity.
An example might be, and this is somewhat political,
but let's say that you have a country and they have leaders.
And the leaders off on their on tangent
with ideas about what's best.
But that doesn't ever really happen, does it? Not really.
I don't, well not in the world I live in.
Actually, I've learned how to see things as they really are.
And when you have leadership off on
a tangent, I'll give you an example.
Okay, we bombed Afghanistan years ago.
There was a lot of people that bought into that.
The United States of America bombed Afghanistan with
the Iraqi thing and all the things that went on
and a lot of people bought into that,
kind of a fear based mentality.
And they went with it and accepted it, if nothing else,
leadership knows best, the authority figures know best.
And as it's deteriorated, there's a lot of people that stood
back and said no, that's actually one of the few times
I was truly afraid when we bombed Afghanistan.
That concerned me a great deal for a number of reasons.
Yes.
But the people that supported that, as it's
deteriorated a lot of them have come to see
with concern that it hasn't gone very well.
And where they, at one point, automatically assumed
the leadership, assumed the way things were going,
they're actually starting to think for themselves.
Okay, that's huge.
As you say with contrast comes clarity.
Absolutely, so I prefer not to use kind of a political
example but it's a really good one because guess what?
We're all becoming one,
the internet has connected all of us.
We used to share our fears, and now we're starting
to share our solutions and it's getting bigger,
on a humanity scale not just America.
Not just, you know, we're starting to discover...
You know, somebody would say the Chinese are the bad guys.
Somebody would say the Chinese are the enemy
or different people and it's just not true.
We're all humans, we all come from the same place.
We all come from the same existence.
We're all starting to flower into our humaneness and
we're discovering we're all the same.
And so I think there's a slowly growing consensus that
being human is more important that following the leader.
Being human is more unifying than,
for example, any territorial issue.
It's more soul satisfying as well.
Absolutely.
And this is what's coming, it's coming very rapidly
and in fact I wrote the book because the book is really
about what I'd call good news and that is
in our succession, if that's the right word, as a species
we're unfolding toward our potential and
come hell or high water we will.
And maybe there's going to be a little hell and a little
high water, but again out of this contrast we're going to
unfold into our potential and unfold we will.
And there's no stopping it.
And when you say come hell or high water and one of
the words you use in your book is chaortic,
which I find an interesting word.
Is it appropriate at this time to
expand on the concept of chaortism.
Well, chaortic is not my term, it comes from
Dee Hock, who I say founded Visa, I believe he
bought it when it was a young company.
Right.
And he has discovered the importance of flexibility
and also what I would call infusing, now this is my term
and the way I describe it, but infusing
innate intelligence into structure.
So chaortic is a combination of chaos and probably order
and it's, I'll give you a good example.
In the appendix in my book, I show a
a picture that's hard to see what it is.
And then on the next page it's the entire cover of
my book with a little dotted window that is actually
a small portion of the cover blown up to large
and when you're looking at the chaos version,
you can't tell what you're looking at and then when
you can see the whole thing, the title, the cover,
you can see that it's a small portion of the cover.
And the point is is that chaos doesn't really exist,
it's a lack of perception so Dee Hock with chaortic
has come to harness what appears to be chaos
and order and, I like to use the term flexibility because
ultimately he's created a model of a corporation that
at it's notal points has flexibility.
And ultimately flexibility means innate
intelligence is infused into this process.
I'll also add that he, I call it a hint in my book,
that he studied the Constitution of the United States
of America and in its flexibility and its innate,
what would I call it, its innate foundational ideas
founded his corporation and rebuilt it.
There's something powerful in what Dee Hock has
uncovered and I'm pleased to have used
an interview of his as an appendix.
Yes, I saw that.
What is the name of, is there, you want to...
tell at this point, what the name of or has he written
an article or book on what he has discovered or
I couldn't tell you offhand.
do you know offhand?
Well we'll dig around a little bit and if it's available
we'll put it up on your page here.
And so this flexibility is something that has to permeate
and it permeates the need for it.
It permeates not just organizations but within
our own being in times like this.
It seems that flexibility, this kind of flexibility,
is what's most needed and yet at the same time
when we feel the pressure upon us with everything changing
so rapidly, we want to dig our heels in and become
entrenched in old familiar belief systems and habits.
So how do we break out of that because I think
a lot of people are finding themselves there,
how do they move to the flexible?
That's a great question.
One of the things I think I've successfully done in my book
is created a grounded interpretation of unconditional love.
Unconditional love is the only way out.
We have to learn about how our realities come to be,
the part we play in it, we can then look at our neighbors
and watch them in their reality creating
an understanding that they're young creators.
They're coming kind of low on the scale of the process
but, you know, resistance we used to,
you know, be the food of dinosaurs not that many years ago
and so we're evolving very rapidly but
resistance is a big part and it's natural
and it's alternative is unconditional love.
It's fear-based survival mechanism, right?
So what we need to do is simply go passed that and
unconditional love is an understanding that actually
well go back to the chaos and order example.
If you don't have enough perspective
you're going to see chaos, if you have enough
perspective you're going to see order.
And in this capacity for seeing order, your capacity to
show and express unconditional love becomes very available.
And there's an exponential multiplier when
you're operating from unconditional love
versus, there's not even a comparison.
Absolutely, the multiplier.
There's no scale.
You mentioned something in your book, and I don't know
if we were at the same lecture by Patrick Flannigan,
but he was doing some experiments using EKG machines,
having to do with the resonance of one person's heart
and then having two people hooked up.
And another person in another room doing their own thing,
chatting with people, unaware of what would be going on.
Watching what happened between their hearts when you had
one projecting unconditional love to the other less aware
of the situation individual and it truly is profound.
And I know you wrote a bit about that as well,
would you care to talk about it?
You know, from the perspective of, everybody knows
who Dr David Hawkins is, and "Power Versus Force"
was a very powerfully and timely book.
And one of the things he capably displays is
what's called a map of consciousness.
And the map of consciousness is a scale of 0 to 1000
with 0 to 200 being the low end of the scale,
700 to 1000 being the upper end of the scale.
700 to 1000 being the states of enlightenment
and actually 0 to 175 being the states of angst,
anger, jealousy, rage and all the lower
types of emotion or existence.
And what's interesting is the break point is at 200
which is courage, in fact pride is at 175
and courage is at 200 and so, what we're having to learn
how to do is move out of our habitual patterns which is
our comfort wherever we are and it takes courage to do that
and we start working our way up the scale.
From there, we learn how to, there's an exponential
multiplier that becomes available as we move up the scale
and our capacity to be influential becomes much greater.
Unconditional love, going back to unconditional love,
it takes courage so you have to have already climbed up
that scale a bit just to be able to access that aspect of
self that can go into the field of unconditional love
especially in the face of challenges
and people's situations it challenges.
Can you comment on that a little bit more.
So let's say that
when you're acting out of reaction,
clearly you are taking in an energy, you're mixing it
with the power that you are, even though much of it
unconsciousness and you're spilling it back out.
All you're doing is repeating, in fact, that goes on a lot.
Somebody will be in a disagreement with somebody
and they will argue with each other and they generated
a whole energetic which is, and they break from that
and usually they've wrecked the rest of their day.
Right, very true.
So, when you learn how to move up the scale and
courage is that secret, it's I think much of what doctor,
well I shouldn't say much but what Dr. David Hawkins did
was unleash this concept of courage
and your ability to move up the scale.
Now the way I see it, as you move up the scale
reason, and I wish I had the map or I could be more eloquent
in the gradients of it, as you move up the scale
the power of the universe flows with you because you
tend to mesh and merge with universal forces.
Obviously universal forces aren't going to flow through you
very powerfully when you're in anger or jealousy
or resentment, but when you move up the scale into
reason, joy, unconditional love, the capacity to influence
your outcomes and secondarily others, you can't
really influence other people but you can support them
by not supporting the resistant operation they're in.
So sometimes you love people and you let them go
but at the very least, when you love somebody you've
stopped the process that otherwise in resistance
would create a ball of energy that, actually the planet
doesn't have much of a place for it anymore,
we need to learn how to go beyond that.
And this brings us into the laws of attraction.
If you're flowing more with the universal energies,
then you're really much more open to
creating from the point of the basic
laws of attraction, like attracts like.
Is that right? Is that, that's a big part of it?
Yes, so the word comes to mind, synchronicities.
Echoes of an interactive universe, as we learn to understand
the law of attraction and deliberate creation is
the intentional use of law of attraction,
our capacity to be influential, the new term I like is
called usefully influential, becomes substantially greater.
As we line up our energies, basically what we're doing is
we climb the scale we're moving toward
harmonizing with universal forces.
That's what enlightenment would be, be the states of that
and I'm sure it goes further but
so in our reality creating as we can use law of attraction
and there's another aspect of that and it's called
what I call underlying quality of intent.
It's actually what I've created as a formula.
Focus, an underlying quality of intent.
And the underlying quality of intent
actually dictates the amount of universal
forces that come into your reality creating.
And as the scale goes up, the synchronicities,
the lining up, it's like I remarked yesterday.
My day went together like a jigsaw puzzle and
the pieces solidly snapping together
one at a time as the day went forward.
It's intentional reality creation, it's the law
of attraction, it's what we learn how to
harness as we become more conscious.
We see the benefits of it, the value is there and we
continue to refine ourselves so there's your out of
contrast comes clarity bumped up the scale quite a bit.
What do you mean when you're talking about the quality
of the intent because that sounds like that's
really the key word in that formula.
Okay, so let's say revenge, somebody's
going to get even with somebody.
A lot of focus and the underlying quality of intent is
not so hot, and so, and lawfully so, I mean it doesn't
serve the universe, it doesn't serve anybody except for
the contrast but there's no exponential multiplier.
So the map of consciousness is important, it shows us
underlying quality of intent in the map of consciousness
which I describe in my book, but as we go up
the underlying quality of intent is the catalyst associated
with focus to bring not only higher quality reality but
the universe flowing through us in our reality creating.
I talk about it as a kind of glue
holding our realities together.
When we are creating realities at the lower levels,
the glue that holds our realities together is very poor.
As we get into alignment with universal forces which is
a product of underlying quality of intent and law
of attraction, the glue gets better.
In fact, I would suggest that most of reality creating
has done at a very low level and therefore,
it is was for the perception and the taking it in
and kicking it back out, I'm sure that reality as
humans have created it would just go back to dust
because it doesn't serve but at a minimal level.
But as we start learning how to create with
love as an exponential multiplier,
since the reality that we have now is barely held together
the ability to replace it with something much more
substantial is very readily available and I think
we'll actually see the world change in a
twinkling of an eye because of this
exponential multiplier that becomes available.
The tipping, that creates in essence a tipping point.
Yes, yes, and it's exponential. It's not a one on one.
Even Dr. Hawkins would tell you there's a big difference
between 200 and 201.
Right.
Much less, 200 and 220 or 200 and 550.
So there's a huge amount of universal forces at our
beck and call as we learn to line up with what's real
and move into these upper scale qualities of intent.
Once you have your quality of intent there,
often times people say, okay I'm going to envision what
I want, I really really want this to happen.
But then as soon as it's over, their little vision or
meditation, the fear starts seeping in.
Oh I don't think I can really, it couldn't happen that fast.
It couldn't happen like that, and then
that basically knocks out the power of allowing
because there seems to be a state of grace and quietude
and faith of sorts and then allowing that intention,
allowing the forces to multiply and gather to create
the end result, is that not right?
So what I've come to see is that the higher your
underlying quality of intent, the higher your
capacity to interface the universal forces,
the less specific your focus is.
So when you're focusing on a new red car,
you know, you've got a lot tied into it and then you can
say you can focus on a new red car from the perspective
of unconditional love but you'll discover if that's the case
because if the fear and the doubt shows up,
you obviously haven't quite made it.
But it's true that as we become more in alignment
with our own nature, our creating becomes
more generalized because it's got to.
If we universal forces kicking in and contributing to
our reality creation, we need to kind of start
defining what we want a little bit less.
And I made a remark that goals are becoming obsolete
because they often come from the perspective of what we want
but we want often comes from the perspective of
the dysfunctional nature, or dysfunctional natures.
And so what I suggested in this article,
and I think it all fit in a set of parenthesis
is that goals are being replaced by intent.
Intent is far more powerful, it's actually far more general,
and it has a capacity to allow universal forces to flow
through and clearly unconditional love to your surroundings
is clearly more an intent rather than a fact.
And I know that goals can be, in fact goals should actually
be how you want to feel if you really want
to have a successful goal.
Exactly. Exactly.
And then you add the that underlying quality of intent and
you know, they're actually starting to merge a little bit.
But clearly the more focused your goal the less
likely they can actually pull universal
forces through you, I would say.
Yeah, that is so true in that it's the difference
between getting out the laundry list for your goal setting.
I really want to have my red car and I'd like to have it by
the end of September and I want a really hot girlfriend,
really hot girlfriend who likes all the same stuff that I
like, and on and on and on, and I'd really like to have more
respect in my job, but in fact what does one
really want except to feel that wonderful lightness
of being, connectivity, productivity.
And so you're saying move away from that
first list and go toward the feeling,
the intention of the feeling and
experience of the other way.
Certainly that's an evolvement of the new hub caps
for your car, the new red car or whatever it is, because
we all started there, I think we all did.
Sure.
But how you feel is very valuable and,
I mean you can see how, what we need to learn how to do
is embrace what is and it's in that that we get to practice
allowing and we get to practice loving.
And when we understand that our realities are a product
of our beliefs and on and on, the only way we're going to
escape them is to love them, it's really an important point.
Certainly resistance is certainly choosing what you want
based on what you don't want is not really part of
the formula and much of your goal setting is choosing
what you want based on what you don't want
and you are actually dragging both along in your goals.
The variety, sure.
So that's why we need to get more generalized in our goals
and bump our way up the map of consciousness, if you will
and loving, I mean how in the world could Jesus or somebody,
these different prophets and poets and, that have been
through the past thousands of years,
their message was always the same.
And certainly it is not about resistance,
it's about the opposite of that, right?
And we love our way out of things.
I think there was not too many years ago, months ago a...
Well there was a big e-mail campaign to love
the President of the United States.
And I think it's a good exercise for humans.
It's a really good exercise.
I agree, it is.
In the alternative we'd gnash our teeth and we
think about, I don't know, about getting even?
We think about, you know, how to solve problems in
this linear, we need to move nonlinear and become
successful in it and if you think about the universe
operates by unfolding and allowing.
And if want in stuck with a true picture of success,
i.e. the universe, we need to start mirroring
and doing the same kind of thing.
And that'd be the success of a species
and a deserved success of a species.
And we're not talking about sentimental love here.
No.
We're talking about a love that is
the fabric of the universe and it's identified in,
how would you describe it in terms of identifying how
a person knows when they're in that place versus the other?
You mean, the lust?
(laughs)
Well I think that's even to tell.
Well even sentimental love for a family member
No, you're right.
is very different than universal love.
Well universal love is first off, I think you can find it
with sentimental love but yes, truly its several octaves up
and unconditional love is really an acceptance
of whatever's going on because it is in order.
What appears to be chaos is in fact a lack of perception
and when you have that perception, when you're coming from
unconditional love you have a perception that all is well.
And in fact, all is well, and if you understand out of
contrast comes clarity, humanity is moving along at the rate
and speed that it is and if you can trust that process
and love that process, guess what?
There's an exponential multiplier in your influence
and in not only your own reality creating because when you
walk away from letting go and the next thing you do
you carry that vibration with you.
Your personal reality creating gets better,
you've blessed the world around you and one at a time,
we make the world a better place and powerfully so.
And going into that place of acceptance does not mean
necessarily that can't progress from there either.
It's, there's sometimes a debate among people in
the various consciousness communities, yeah but
you have to know the nuts and bolts and you have to take
action in order to create the change we're looking for
and the other group would say, no, everything is in
divine order and meditate their way through, okay.
But it's actually both are true.
Well look at it this way, we are
a product of our momentum.
Our momentum is all the decisions we've made before us
and it has a trajectory and in fact, we look at our
trajectory as a species right now, it doesn't look so hot.
And the only way out of that is to love it.
So, there's people that want to go out there and be dynamic
and solve problems and often they're coming from
a dysfunctional perspective of some sort, and I'm not
picking on them, everybody does what they do and we
all contribute and it wouldn't be what it is if we
didn't all contribute, but in the end, the way
we solve problems is by loving them.
We have to love our momentum, we have to love our
existing trajectory that's a product of our momentum and
the only way we escape it or make it more is by loving it.
And loving it has to do with, again, it's almost
interchangeable with true acceptance, true understanding.
These are all parts of true love.
I've with it a lot and allowing is a great word,
acceptance is a great word, they're all great,
unconditional love, but allowing,
when you really can't allow things to be the way they are
we've come a long way and guess where we start allowing?
With our own foibles, our own mistakes, our own errors.
It's a very interesting, we're living in a very interesting
time and place because the contrast is getting bigger,
more and more people are becoming aware
that there's a problem than ever before.
Where in the old days, you simply followed the church
or the state and they were the authority figures
and you assumed they had their act together.
We're now moving toward this individuality and discovering
this innateness that we each have inside and it comes
to us not by resistance, in fact resistance creates quite
a ruckus in our lives and the lives of everyone around us.
So we want to learn how to get inside and learn how to
listen, well find everything's available
to us that, excuse me, that way.
Any final thoughts in pulling it all together,
which you just did really nicely by the way,
but any final thoughts on visionaries thriving in our times?
You know, I did have a remark I'd like to,
I have this idea that we have artificial entities on
the planet and it's a strange term but it's interesting
because we have corporations on the planet
that have been here a long time.
The United States of America has been here for 225 years.
A corporation.
Yes it is.
It's a corporation, it's an artificial entity.
And interestingly enough, and the church is kind of
the same way, and I'm not picking on these guys because
they're important, they've always been here.
They've always been important, but interestingly
enough an artificial entity, again
a corporation, has no nervous system.
It has no access to innate intelligence.
It has no true access to decision making.
See, when you make a decision there's
always a feeling that goes with it.
And when you're learning how to listen to
the feeling that's inside of you,
you can tell about the quality of your decision.
Artificial entities don't have this.
What's happened inadvertently is the artificial entities
have become the leaders on the planet.
This is so true.
And it's not serving the humans,
so my whole goal is to empower humans to discover
who they are, find out what's inside of them, let it out,
quit deferring to authority figures outside of themselves.
As we discover who we are, we'll find our commonality,
we'll find that we're all the same and I'd like
to see the humans get back in charge of things.
Jim's book is available by clicking on the link below.
Meanwhile, another interview along this line is with
Michael Gelb who teaches us how to think like da Vinci,
one of the world's greatest visionaries.
Until next time, thanks for watching.